The Joe Rogan experience. So are you officially retiring?
I'm not officially retiring. I am sort of, I guess,
indefinitely on the sidelines right now.
I am,
I am actively seeing more doctors and working
towards learning more about this. I obviously,
I want to keep fighting. It's this.
Gentleman in LA, uh, Dr. Wong, is that what your name? Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
So he had done these operations on, you said MMA fighters.
Uh, I don't know if he operated on, he, he mentioned boxers and NFL players.
I don't know if he operated on them.
He had seen it in them and helped them continue their careers.
And he keeps like a close eye. So, you know,
I need to get scans done at least once a year or every.
Six months that patch the large patch in the back of your head.
Was that particularly troubling to him more than.
The other ones? No. No.
He said like that it was in the best location possible to get to, yes,
because it's not deep in it. It's not in an area where it could affect my,
my cognitive functions, my memory, things like that. What goes.
On back there.
Back there, you know, I'm not a hundred percent sure. Uh, they made it, I mean,
he made it sound like nothing too important happens there. It's more like,
seems weird. I know, like I, the back area,
as far as what I've learned thus far is more like everyday type
of stuff. You know, it's not your memory,
it's not in a position where you could
violently lose your temper or kind of like have like a, a lapse in time,
you know, mm-hmm, <affirmative> where you kind of become someone else.
And then you come back, like, you know,
that all that kind of stuff happens more deep inside the brain. Okay. Uh,
where it's at on the outside and the back is just sort of like the regular
stuff, you know.
Obviously neither of us are neurosurgeons the way we're describing it,
the regular stuff, uh, the area of the regular stuff. Yeah. So, um,
are you thinking about going in there and getting it removed?
No. No, it is. It is recommended against why is that doing?
Cause why do brain surgery? If I don't have any symptoms, that's,
that's what he says. Mm-hmm <affirmative> and you know, cuz I was up for it.
I said, Hey, should we just do this? And he is like, look,
it'll probably be six more months to a year before I would say,
it's okay to go back into sparring and things like that. Mm. Um, you know,
you're gonna be able to walk out and be fine and do your day to day stuff,
but I don't want you getting hit in the head for a while. Of course. And why,
I mean, it's a low risk surgery,
but why take that risk if you're not having symptoms? The, the,
the treatment or the care is always just to keep an eye on it,
see how it develops. And if you start having some problems,
then we're gonna go in there and remove it. But if you.
Say that you're indefinitely on the sidelines, it's,
it seems to me that unless you get it removed,
you're permanently on the sidelines.
Well, I, you know, this is where I'm at now, you know? Um,
this is such a, a rare and unique thing.
No one really knows too much, you know, I'm getting some people that are saying.
No, no way mm-hmm <affirmative> and then I'm getting these other, you know,
specialists and people that have really dealt with it that are like, yeah,
it's okay. I am, like I said, it's indefinite. How old?
I just wanna I'm 36.
So you're in this mean realistically athletically, this is sort of the.
Last chapter of your career. Oh yes. Oh yes. Yeah.
And this is how I wanted to end it, you know, as the champ, trying to, uh,
myself as one of the great champ of this era and, um,
you know, defend that belt as long as possible and, you know, say goodbye.
Um, but I still have hope. I still have hope that,
um,
if I can continue seeing more doctors and getting more knowledge, um,
you know,
Andy foster from the athletic commission has rec recommended another doctor to
see I'm not officially declined, um,
for the California state athletic commission at this point. Um,
did Andy foster talk.
To this Dr. Wong who specifically said he didn't think it was.
Gonna be a problem? No, not yet. No, not yet.
But he recommended another doctor at UCLA that actually used to work on the
flood commission. Um, that could be a big help. And I mean,
this is I'm right in the middle of this.
So I'm just gonna keep seeing more doctors and try to learn more about this.
And, you know, if it's,
if it's really unsafe and I'm not gonna get approved ever,
I finally got to a place where I can accept that, you know, and, uh,
and I'm gonna move forward on with my life teaching and doing what I do,
you know, uh, at home and, um, and with all of my students worldwide. But,
um, but as I,
if I'm still getting people like Dr. Wong and the Dr. AAN Brazil,
and I can find more doctors who have experience with this,
if they keep saying that they think it's okay then, uh, and I can,
you know, have hope of getting approved. I'm gonna keep fighting for that.
Where.
Where can you get approved? What states could approve you right now?
Well, that's tricky to know because, um, you know, uh,
as far as in the us, only in New York and California require brain scans.
And so that's, you know, a big thing of what I want to talk about, you know, or,
or what I wanted to bring awareness to is like, you know,
all these other states don't require scans. So, uh, if you,
if you fight in those states, you know, um, it's,
to me it's a, of, in your best interest to on your own, if you have the means,
if you have insurance or whatever, get a scan done, you know,
to see what what's, what it looks like for sure. Um,
but I'm hoping that through this,
we can figure out if Caverno is safe or not.
The more doctors I have looking at this and, um, you know,
talking about it, bringing awareness to it,
that we're gonna learn and understand more of this disease.
And if it's possible, if it's not possible, um,
but I'm trying to keep the hope alive that if, if it's six months, a year,
even two years, that maybe I can at least get one more, you know,
at least get one more. Um,
but the thing is them putting me in a state that doesn't require a scan
doesn't necessarily mean I'm gonna get approved because these other commissions
have a responsibility to speak up and say, Hey,
we don't think it's of his best interest, you know, wise right. To,
to compete. And you know, I'm not, I don't, I'm not, uh,
I'm not against the commission. I totally understand and respect that. Andy,
Foster's one of the very best yes. In the business.
He's so ahead of everybody else. And he, they,
they opened up a time for me to come out next month and speak with him face to
face, um, uh, you know,
and get to see the people that are making the decisions and learn more
and understand more of their position and, and you know, how they feel about it.
Uh, and I'm just trying to gather up as much information in the meantime.
Would it be possible to do that with Dr. Wong? I hope so. Um,
that's the plan and hopefully a few more mm-hmm <affirmative> um, that's, uh,
that's what I'm working on. That's what I'm in the middle of. And until then,
I'm just gonna keep training and trying to stay positive. Who do you have a, uh,
match with a jujitsu match? Well, it hasn't been announced yet, but, uh,
I'm gonna be facing <laugh>. I mean, it's about to come out.
It's less than a month away now. Um, February 21st,
I'll be facing Roberto cyborg in a no gate grappling match. Um,
he's a big fella. Yes, yes. What was that dude weigh?
Probably in the neighborhood of two 40, maybe a little more. Yeah.
We've had a few matches in the past and he's a great guy. He's a legend as well.
Like just, you know, one of the best ever, um, from my time. And, uh,
it'll be fun. And that's what I wanna do in the meantime is keep myself sharp,
keep competing, keep training, and hopefully get another opportunity.
But if not, at least learn more about this and hopefully,
you know, um, inspire others to get it checked out. You know,
even if you're not in a combat sport, you know, or doing anything risky,
just like the same would, same thing you would do like to go get a checkup,
you know, Hey, at some point in your life, it wouldn't hurt. Yeah.
To get a scan done. Yeah. You know,
it just really opened my eyes to how we don't know what what's going
on up there and something could happen, you know,
and you don't have an answer to it. Um,
but if you knew what was in your brain, maybe you would have that answer. Yeah.
It seems like such a tricky situation to be in, because if you do.
Decide to do something about it,
you really kind of almost have to do it now. Mm-hmm <affirmative> right.
Because at 36 with a full year off of no sparring at all,
or he said six months to a year mm-hmm <affirmative>.
So he would have to see you a couple times, maybe do another scan. Yeah.
And see where you're at. Let's say six months. Well,
six months is like an ACE C surgery. Not that bad. Right. But a year is like,
Ooh, now we're into 37, 37 and a half. Yeah.
And then you gotta get in real tiptop shape again. Um,
if you really wanted to fight again, it's funny.
I understand the doctor's position. Why do the surgery,
if you don't experience symptoms, but most people aren't fighting.
Yeah. The,
the thing is though it doesn't take away the fact that I have Caverno right.
Like there's multiple locations. And so just removing that one doesn't change.
The condition.
So the it's possible the commissions wouldn't change their evaluation just based
on the scan with the, the other areas. Exactly.
Uh,